Rising stress levels have caught everyone’s attention like never before. Stress can originate from multitude of sources like academic institutions, workplaces, personal relationships, and society. Increased stress is associated with anxiety issues, chronic heart diseases, high blood pressure and nervous breakdown. Through Leveraging supervised machine learning techniques, Healthier lifestyle habits will be encouraged by providing recommendations on ways to combat increased stress levels. The scope of this project is to create a stress monitoring system using wearable devices which will examine the Change in blood volume pulse (BVP), heart rate variation (HRV) with the device during stress inducing task. Logistic regression (LR), Naive Bayes, Random Forest, and support vector machine (SVM) traditional machine learning algorithms along with Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) deep learning algorithm will be used to classify stress levels. The performance of the model could be enhanced using k-fold cross validation.
Also, previous studies showed that with linear and non-linear HRV features and using SVM machine learning model higher accuracy was achieved. We are aiming to predict stress levels with 80% accuracy approximately. The performance and results of the algorithms will be compared based on Accuracy, F1-score, confusion matrix. The Project will positively impact individuals’ well-being by detecting stress in the initial stages and preventing long-term health issues. Based on classification and detection of stress levels, suggestions would be provided to individuals to facilitate their mental wellness.
